README.md, before:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10-%23007ec6)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=%23dfb317&label=issues&query=%24.open_issues_count&suffix=%20open&url=https%3A%2F%2Fgit.gnous.eu%2Fapi%2Fv1%2Frepos%2FGnousEU%2Ftuxbot-bot%2F)

# Installing Tuxbot

It is preferable to install the bot on a dedicated user. If you don't know how to do it, please refer to [this guide](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sudo-user-on-ubuntu-quickstart)

## Installing the pre-requirements

  - The pre-requirements are:
      - Python 3.7 or greater
      - Pip
      - Git

### Operating systems

-----

### Arch Linux

```shell script
sudo pacman -Syu python python-pip python-virtualenv git
```

Continue by [creating virtual env](#creating-a-virtual-env).

-----

#### Debian

```shell script
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y install python3 python3-dev python3-pip python3-venv git
```

Continue by [creating virtual env](#creating-a-virtual-env).

-----

#### Windows

*go to hell*

## Creating a virtual env

Make sure you have the virtualenv package installed before following the next steps.

Create the virtual environment by executing the following command:
```shell script
python3 -m venv ~/tuxvenv
```

And activate it with this command:
```shell script
source ~/tuxvenv/bin/activate
```

## Installing Tuxbot

Now, you can finish the installation by executing this single command:
```shell script
pip install .
```

## Configuration

It's time to set up your first instance, to do this, you can simply execute this command:

```shell script
tuxbot-setup [your instance name]
```

After following the instructions, you can run your instance by executing this command:

```shell script
tuxbot [your instance name]
```


## Update

*todo*

Commit message:

update(doc|readme|installing): change installing steps

README.md, after:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10-%23007ec6)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=%23dfb317&label=issues&query=%24.open_issues_count&suffix=%20open&url=https%3A%2F%2Fgit.gnous.eu%2Fapi%2Fv1%2Frepos%2FGnousEU%2Ftuxbot-bot%2F)

# Installing Tuxbot

It is preferable to install the bot on a dedicated user. If you don't know how to do it, please refer to [this guide](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sudo-user-on-ubuntu-quickstart)

## Installing the pre-requirements

  - The pre-requirements are:
      - Python 3.7 or greater
      - Pip
      - Git

### Operating systems

-----

### Arch Linux

```shell script
sudo pacman -Syu python python-pip python-virtualenv git
```

Continue to [installing Tuxbot](#installing-tuxbot).

-----

#### Debian

```shell script
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y install python3 python3-dev python3-pip python3-venv git
```

Continue to [installing Tuxbot](#installing-tuxbot).

-----

#### Windows

*go to hell*


## Installing Tuxbot

To set up the virtual environnement and install the bot, simply run this two commands:

```shell script
make
make install
```

Now, switch your environment to the virtual one by run this single command:
```shell script
source ~/tuxvenv/bin/activate
```

## Configuration

It's time to set up your first instance, to do this, you can simply execute this command:

```shell script
tuxbot-setup [your instance name]
```

After following the instructions, you can run your instance by executing this command:

```shell script
tuxbot [your instance name]
```


## Update

*todo*
